Good morning.
I'm glad to see people here this morning.
I realize it's awfully early for folks,
9 o'clock in the morning.
Particularly, I'm sure,
I know I saw a lot of people
online last night playing with
their iChat cameras and stuff,
and all the new software.
So I bet folks are rather tired.
I appreciate you coming
here this morning.
So what we're going to be talking about
today is-- if I can get this to work.
Hello.
Oh, how cool.
Don't seem to have a remote.
Okay.
What we want to be talking about today is
Thank you for joining us.
I'm going to start off by kind of
changing the scope of what a lot of the
other sessions are within the conference.
Typically, you know,
you spend a lot of time digging down
into various aspects of the system,
but today we're actually going to
spend time focusing on the very,
very top stack of the architecture
diagram and applications.
This is the first time, in fact,
that we've talked about applications
at the Developer Conference and how
developers can actually get involved
and participate in the process of
enhancing our application story.
Apple has a number of pro
applications that we currently have,
including Final Cut Pro,
which is our video editing suite,
Shake 3, our compositing tool,
which is used for things like
Lord of the Rings and The Matrix,
eMagic for music creation,
DVD Studio Pro for
DVD production and authoring,
and Final Cut Express,
which is basically Final Cut video
editing for DV in the prosumer space.
Within those set of applications,
there's actually a number
of opportunities available
to you as the developer.
One area is in the scope of plug-ins,
the ability to create filters and effects
and other things for video and for audio.
For each of these applications,
there's a number of
plug-in opportunities,
and we'll talk more about that
both a little bit later and
in some of the other sessions.
In the hardware domain,
there's an opportunity for creating
both video and audio I/O devices,
being able for multi-channel audio,
or for high definition or
standard definition video,
or video cards for dealing with video
acceleration and being able to do
things like real-time effects and such.
In the content area,
which is a new area for us,
the ability to create audio
loop libraries for Soundtrack,
which is our looping application,
and animated fonts and textures
and objects and other templates
for our animation tools,
specifically LiveType,
which I'll be talking about in a moment.
We want to spend a moment and talk
a little bit about Final Cut Pro 4.
Final Cut Pro 4 is now, let's see,
a week and a couple of days old.
It just shipped a little bit ago.
And it's actually a
suite of applications.
Final Cut Pro itself,
which is the video editing tool for
being able to deal with everything
from DV to standard definition,
high definition film,
and a number of other applications
that are now bundled with the app.
Soundtrack,
which is an audio looping tool,
Live Type for text animation,
Cinema Tools for being
able to manipulate film,
and Compressor,
which is a transcoding tool.
To get into the application
in even more detail,
I'd like to invite Brian Meaney,
the product designer for Final Cut Pro,
and he'll show you a little
bit about each of the apps.
I'll be back after he's done.
Thanks, Brett.
[Transcript missing]
So compositing, as I kind of mentioned,
compositing effects goes
hand-in-hand inside Final Cut.
It's a lot of things that you
want to be able to do in here.
And as I open up a sequence in here,
I simply have some shots
that I really want to do some
compositing over and so forth.
So I'm going to just open up some clips,
and very quickly,
just by using what we call
the superimposed edit,
I'll edit this particular one over there.
And right now,
it's just showing the full video here.
So if I want to change that,
I don't have to go into some
special mode or things like that.
I can actually just
select the item in here,
grab the item,
start shrinking it down and moving it.
And to do the animation,
I can slide it wherever I want,
simply set up some keyframes.
I'm doing it all right
here in the window,
so I'm actually seeing what I'm doing.
I can get in here with Bezier
controls and so forth as well,
and instantly jump back and
play that back in real time.
It's that real-time performance
that makes all the difference.
So having as many effects as you can
do in real time is vitally important.
So if I do or don't like that,
I can start changing the timing of that,
move that around,
and have it move really slowly
around that one keyframe.
Then move fast over there.
So I can really play with
all those different elements.
Now we can get in here and start
adding all sorts of other elements.
Like maybe I'll add in some text.
I'll do the same sort of thing.
I'll just do a superimposed
edit to add it in here.
Actually, why don't I just swap it
up to the track up here.
So now this text is great, but again,
it's this toolset that
makes Final Cut unique.
So there's a lot of things that
we can do in here to make it easy.
Maybe I want to have this text
follow along the same path
as the video I just created.
Well, this is a computer,
so I can simply copy what we
call paste-adjust and paste the
attributes of that basic motion
to this item down in here.
And now in real time,
it's all tied to my elements.
Now as you can see,
I'm playing with these things
and creating these things
and doing it in real time.
It's that real-time feedback that
allows me to be creative to play with
these different elements in time.
And I can start getting into layering all
sorts of tracks and effects and things
like that and stacking these things up.
But in the real world,
it's not necessarily about all the
layers that I'm actually doing.
It's about what I can
actually do with my video.
So in this case, I'm actually going to
drag a Gaussian Blur,
a filter,
and I'm going to drag this into my item.
So you can see it's blurry over
here and then keyframing back in.
So I can do filters and effects,
not just the typical keys and
things like that in real time.
Or maybe what I want to do is actually
get into something else altogether.
And I want to know what my video
tracks item is because it's
source footage I'm going to buy.
So I can actually come in here and say,
"All right, let's do a timecode print
filter." And so I can do that.
And so every single frame now
is being updated as it's playing
along there in real time.
So I can get all those
facts going on for me.
So the real-time performance inside
Final Cut 4 is very robust right now,
and it's really nice and
really great for our users.
So beyond all that,
now these effects that I've
been creating over here,
like the Gaussian Blur,
these are all created in FXBuilder.
FXBuilder is the language that we
use for creating all of our effects.
Every single one that's created
inside Final Cut is actually open.
You can open them up,
actually see the code that's
actually been used to create it,
and go in there,
either modify it or create your own.
Use it as a template.
We have the new menu that kind of
shows up in here showing all the
different points and so forth.
And we actually have some developers
that have created their own plug-ins
and things like that as well.
So this adds the number
of effects that can go on.
And it ties directly into our
real-time effects structure.
So the items or the effects that
can be done in real time just
show up as real-time as well.
So for our users, again, very,
very powerful solution.
So they're getting that
interactivity all the time,
which is really important.
So, you know,
very key elements as to what's
kind of going on at that point.
In addition to that,
in addition to our own
effects that we actually use,
we also work with third-party
After Effects filters.
So here I have a filter from Stage Tools.
These are the ones from
CineLook and things like that
that you can actually use.
And they show up directly in the
menu as the manufacturer's name,
and you can actually apply
them and use them as well.
So tying in directly to those.
So, again, compositing effects all
inside one application.
Beyond that,
there's a lot of other things
that have gone inside Final Cut 4.
Customization is a very big one.
One thing that we've added to
keep the layouts and keep yourself
working very efficiently is a
fully customizable keyboard.
There are over 600
commands inside Final Cut,
and a lot of them are
listed in Final Cut.
So you can actually put it in here.
That's why we have to have the whole
search mechanism in here as well,
so you can actually find all the
different ones that are in there.
But very quickly, you can find all the
different items that you want.
Here's all the ones related
to audio and things like that.
And search and create them or
customize them to any of the commands.
And these are not just limited
to just the single keystrokes
or the command keystrokes.
You can go down to Command Option,
Shift Option, or things like that,
and just do it as simply as dragging
and dropping to one of the layouts.
And then you have
customized to that item.
Tool tips update to show the new items.
And so forth.
Very robust.
And you can even go steps further
of actually adding in buttons.
Dragging to the areas in here
and so forth as well will add
buttons to your user interface.
So again, keeping the user actually very
productive in their entire workflow,
which is a key to what we try and do.
In addition to that,
audio is a very big thing as well.
As I kind of get in here,
certainly I'm going to move to, again,
a slightly different layout.
All of our layouts are based upon
workflows and things like that.
We have an audio mixing layout.
So in here, I can actually get in here,
do some more customization,
resizing the timeline tracks,
bring those up a little bit,
and actually just start playing
these items in real time.
And with keyframing turned on,
I can actually start doing keyframing
and moving my items in real time.
Adding keyframes down here in the
timeline and so forth as well.
So I can do my real-time
mixing inside of here,
working with files of 24-bit.
And in addition to that,
not only real-time mixing
for audios and levels,
we also work with third-party
audio unit filters.
So we've rewritten our Apple filters
that we actually had in there for
Final Cut Pro for audio units,
as well as we can now actually
work with third-party ones as well.
Sorry there.
So all of our units will now
kind of show up in there.
And in addition to all these
things that are going on,
we've also included another application
that we mentioned before as well,
which is Soundtrack.
I'm just gonna quickly move
over to Soundtrack here.
Soundtrack is our audio looping and
music creation editing application,
which is very powerful.
Right in here, I have a file that's been
exported from Final Cut Pro with
having markers that show up.
These are called scoring markers
that allow me to line up things very
quickly between the two applications.
So very quickly,
if I'm looking for items,
I can just start clicking on items,
even while I'm playing my video,
start getting idea of what it's
actually going to sound like.
That's a little low at the moment.
But you can find all the different items,
search for the different
ones that I want,
find the loops,
and then just drag them off.
It'll create a track
for me automatically.
I can loop those things out
and just keep kind of going.
There's a very extensive
search mechanism.
I can do the same sort of thing that
I can do in all the applications.
Start searching maybe for a strum guitar,
find the items I want,
and again just drag these in.
And these are all loops that are created.
They're shipped with over 4,000 loops.
But again, there are more items that
can be added to these.
It's a very extensive database
of finding these different items.
So you can see how powerful it really is.
You can get into lots of different items,
lots of different music,
and add these items in.
You also can work with,
in addition to all these different loops,
work with audio units
inside this application as
well for doing your mixing.
So for example,
I can bring up my filters.
These are the ones that are
shipping directly with Apple.
But also here are some from
eMagic that have actually shipped.
And I can actually get in here
and maybe add something like,
let's see.
Let's do the Fat EQ here.
And I can actually also bring
up the UI for this item as well.
And actually start playing and
animating and automating this from
the UI from the manufacturer as well.
All this while doing my music editing.
So again, a very powerful little
application for creating my
music for my video productions.
I'm gonna move back over to
Final Cut Pro quickly as well.
And just one of the last things
in addition to that is all these
items that we bring up is also
exporting out over to Compressor.
Compressor is basically an application
that does all of my compression.
It does MPEG-2 compression.
Most importantly,
it does 2-pass VBR for going out to DVD,
combining that with certainly
the music that I'm actually
doing inside Soundtrack,
bringing all my productions together,
and then going over to
DVD Studio Pro as well.
So a lot of ties and
files in there as well.
There's a lot of different presets for
going out to pretty much any format that
you can kind of create inside QuickTime.
So a very robust set of features
inside this application.
And this is just kind of the
beginning of the tool set.
There's Cinema Tools as well,
which allows me to do 24p
editing as well as film editing.
So I can do the offline or online
editing and so forth as well.
HD editing,
and there's even further interaction
that some of my colleagues
will get into in just a minute.
But that is the basics
of Final Cut Pro 4.
Some of the few ties-ins and
so forth in there as well.
A lot of the different
ways you can actually start
getting into the application,
but it's a very open one.
And again, the biggest thing about this
application that makes it unique
and powerful is the set of tools.
The set of tools are
based upon open standards,
be it QuickTime or other ones
that we're kind of working on,
keeping it open to bring people in and
create other things out there in the
community of making a much bigger one
than anyone could do by themselves.
And that's something we
believe very strongly in.
So, with that,
I'm going to turn it back over to Brett,
kind of move on from there.
Thanks, Brian.
Final Cut and the suite of applications
is an incredibly rich suite.
There's no way we can cover the feature
set here in the time we have available.
So we apologize for rushing through.
But the goal here is actually
just to give you enough of an
overview to help us actually focus
on the really important message,
which is,
what are the developer opportunities?
Within Final Cut and within
a number of the professional
applications such as eMagic's Logic,
all of them have various
plug-in models available to you.
Whether it be for audio units,
as you saw with Soundtrack
and with Final Cut Pro,
but also within Logic,
all of these applications
support audio units.
And they allow you to have various
audio effects and even be able to
do a number of things to either
improve the quality of your sound
or actually generate new sound.
So audio units are one very important
feature of these various applications.
And if you happen to be
an audio unit developer,
there's an opportunity for you to make
your audio units available to these apps.
FX Script is another
interesting opportunity.
This is a scripting language
within Final Cut for doing special
effects or effects actions.
In fact,
all of the effects that Final Cut uses
are built within FX Script.
There are a couple of third-party
developers today who actually make
FX Script plug-in suites for Final Cut.
It's an interesting opportunity
both for Final Cut Express and for
Final Cut Pro if you happen to be
a developer with skills in doing
video manipulation of various types.
An FX Script is one that you can
actually get and start playing
with even as a user for being able
to do custom effects development.
This still doesn't work.
Okay.
After Effects plugins are also
supported within Final Cut.
So there's basically a certain,
fairly minimal level,
but nevertheless a level of
support for After Effects,
the plug-in model that's
supported within Final Cut Pro.
So if you have development you've done
using the After Effects plugins API set,
they can be brought into
Final Cut to be able to,
again, take advantage of both
generators and effects,
for example, blurs, as you saw,
and a number of other
things that are available.
So if you're an effects developer and
have experience with After Effects,
this is another place that you
can be bringing in your plug-ins.
And in addition to all of the
stuff that we've talked about,
a whole other area of
opportunity is for Shake.
Shake is Apple's compositing,
very high-end compositing tool,
and they have their own plug-in model
which is available for being able to do
very sophisticated compositing effects.
And we'll talk more about the
Shake plug-ins later in this week.
[Transcript missing]
But all of these are available as
an opportunity for those of you who
are up and to be content developers.
In the hardware space for
the various applications,
there's certainly in the PCI card
development area opportunity for
video acquisition hardware for
standard and high-definition video.
One of the big challenges is how do
you get all this data into the machine?
And certainly for things like high def,
you need to be able to take
advantage of PCI and now PCI-X.
And if you are a hardware developer,
there's a great opportunity there.
Also for Final Cut and for the eMagic,
the Logic product,
there's a number of opportunities
for multi-channel audio
acquisition capture boards as well.
In addition to for the PCI card
and the video space accelerated
hardware real-time effects boards.
So basically there's the concept of I/O,
bringing your data in and out.
Both for audio and video and being able
to do very high-speed effects work.
We do for Final Cut and
the other products,
a lot of things are done in software,
particularly now with the new G5.
There's just an enormous
amount of power that's there,
but there's still not enough
horsepower to be able to do things
like high-definition video effects
or things like that in real time.
There's a lot of opportunity to be able
to do some very interesting things.
In the FireWire domain, as mentioned,
there's a couple of interesting
products that are coming out,
both audio acquisition units that
go over FireWire for multi-channel
audio input and output,
as well as our new I/O framework that
we've made available so that developers
can actually do that now in addition
to audio for being able to do that with
standard definition uncompressed video.
A.G.A.
is actually one of the
first developers to do that,
but we're anticipating quite a number
of other developers jumping in to
being able to do other FireWire-based
uncompressed SD solutions.
In the USB domain,
there are opportunities for
multi-channel audio acquisition.
Certainly, we're seeing more and more
multi-channel audio capabilities
throughout the applications.
I think you saw yesterday the keynote,
one of the sessions they
talked about QuickTimes and
new capabilities for Surround.
There's a lot of activity out there
in terms of extending the support
for multi-channel audio and a lot of
places to provide hardware for it.
For all of these opportunities,
there's a number of sessions this week
that I've encouraged you to go see.
If you're into content creation,
this afternoon there's a
Creating Content for Soundtrack
and Live Type session where we'll
actually get into detail around
how to make the Apple loops,
how to take various motion video
content or animations and make
them available for live type,
and the tools and other formats
that are available there.
On Thursday,
there's a session on interfacing
professional video hardware with
Final Cut Pro where we'll get into
the various issues around both
acquisition and the real-time effects,
as well as the new I/O Framework
and how you can take advantage of
some of the new capabilities there.
And on Friday,
we have a session on plug-ins
that will cover everything from
Shake plug-ins and Audio Unit plug-ins
and After Effects plug-in capabilities.
And on Friday,
we have a session on plug-ins that will
cover everything from Shake plug-ins
and After Effects plug-in capabilities.
Now, moving on,
the next interesting opportunity in the
developer domain is in the workflow area.
Although we have a very
rich set of professional
applications available from Apple,
it's really just a small drop in the
bucket compared to the problem domain in
the professional video and audio world.
There are just so many other things
that people have to do to be able
to produce a movie or produce a CD,
whether it be script writing and
storyboards to dealing with very
high-end color correction and going
back and forth between film and scoring.
You name it,
there are just a whole number of
different pieces to the process.
The interesting situation is that
the real world isn't the same.
It doesn't revolve around
any one application.
It involves many to be
able to solve the problem.
We've spent a lot of time thinking
about that from the perspective
of our pro applications.
I think we have some interesting
things we'll be talking about here
in terms of how you can actually
participate in this process.
One of the big problems with workflow
is certainly how do you get information
back from one application to another?
How do you get access to the raw
data that's in the application,
whether it be in the case of Final Cut,
the project,
all the various things are laid
out in the timelines and such,
to the metadata
surrounding each of those.
What effects and other things that are
actually applied in transitions and such.
This is just for video,
never mind other aspects of the workflow.
Independent of that level of data,
there's the issues of actually
the various formats that the media
end up bringing into the pie.
Certainly, QuickTime on the
Apple platform makes a big,
big difference here because we have
one consistent way of being able to
deal with multiple forms of media
through a consistent set of APIs,
and that helps a lot.
But it still is a big challenge in
terms of being able to deal with the
different formats of media there and
the different formats of project files.
But that's, again,
only kind of one piece of the problem.
Moving data between the
various things is one thing,
but along the way,
you really need to be able to
modify it and be able to do things,
you know, interesting things with the
data as it goes from the
different stages of the workflow.
It's more than just reading the files.
So with that, I actually want to pass off
to Bill Hudson from Apple,
who will talk a little bit more about
what we're doing in this and actually
talk about some work we've been
doing with some of the other teams.
Bill, what are you doing with
some third parties to help,
you know, really show the opportunities
in the workflow space?
Bill.
Thank you, Brett.
Brett mentioned workflow,
and that's a little bit about what
we're going to talk about here.
And that very much is an
offline to online workflow where
Final Cut Pro is used for offline
editing and moving project file
data over to a Quantel system,
either an EQ or IQ.
In Final Cut Pro 4,
we've got XML interchange format,
and this is the industry's
first nonlinear editor to expose
all project file data via XML.
So for developers,
there's a lot of opportunity
there to create products that
address various workflow issues.
Nothing is hidden or proprietary in
this project file data interchange.
You have complete access to all
Final Cut Pro project attributes,
and it provides a link
to other editing systems,
asset management databases,
and post-production pipelines.
So we'll touch on one of
those here in just a minute.
The first implementation, of course,
is an AAF plug-in by Automatic Duck.
And for those who do not know,
AAF is the Advanced Authoring Format.
There are many manufacturers who
are members of the AAF association,
and they are all striving to arrive
at a standard by which information can
be transferred among various disparate
systems in a post-production workflow.
So let's talk first here about what
this process is and what we'll be
demonstrating here in just a moment.
First, you're gonna have your
offline acquisition.
So let's say you shoot film,
35 millimeter or 16 millimeter,
and you telecine to HD at 24p.
Or you maybe shoot HD originally in 1080,
one of these different frame rates.
At that point then,
you're going to capture into a
Final Cut Pro desktop system using
either a Pinnacle CineWave card,
the Pinnacle CineWave 4,
which they will have
drivers available very soon,
or the AJA Kona HD card.
So these two cards,
their drivers allow for
different capabilities.
Right now,
the Pinnacle CineWave will allow you
to capture when they ship this product,
CineWave 4.
Either in Photo JPEG, DV at 25 megabit,
or DVC Pro 50 codecs.
The AJA Kona card HD can
now capture to Photo JPEG.
So this gives you the ability
to have files that are very,
very small.
So basically,
24p HD is about 96 megabytes per second.
So when you capture
these offline formats,
you're much, much smaller.
You can work mobily on a PowerBook.
So here's your acquisition
into Final Cut Pro.
So at that point, you're going to then,
you can edit with real-time effects,
high quality, again, low data rate,
DV at 24p is about 2.9
megabytes per second.
And all your frame and time
code information is completely
accurate in your project file.
You can monitor your video out NTSC with
real-time 3.2 insertion over FireWire.
Brett mentioned the AJA I/O box.
All of the ports are
active on that I/O box.
So you can monitor, like I said,
your video, and you can get
multi-channels of audio out,
which is really a nice thing
to be able to do while you're
in an editing environment.
You can then export using the
Automatic Duck AAF plug-in and then
transfer that file over a network
directly to a Quantel IQ or EQ.
And it's at this point that I'd like
to introduce Tom McDonald from Quantel.
Tom?
Thanks, Bill.
I think my friends at Apple are
being a little bit humble about
XML technology because it's a
huge step forward and it's a huge
commitment to not only the professional
video industry and film industry,
but to developers as well.
This is the first time, essentially,
the whole kimono has been opened
up for such a popular application,
and the potential to impact
workflow is huge in Hollywood,
but it is potential at this time.
And what we need to do to
make it successful lies in
the hands of the developers.
So I hope everybody actually has an
opportunity here to get their heads
around what this means and go forward
and make some great complementary apps
that can move this whole effort forward.
I'm going to talk about quickly
what XML Exchange does for Quantel.
Quantel is the makers of very,
very high-end digital film
editing and graphics systems.
Essentially,
there is a group in Hollywood and
some folks in London,
different production areas, film areas,
that are never happy with
the performance of systems.
You can never have a fast enough system.
Our job, essentially,
is to stay ahead of Moore's
Law as much as we can,
and we've done this for about 25 years.
What's pushing this movement forward
now for us and is very good for us
is the fact that in the film area,
in the film arena,
The technology has now reached a point
where you can scan film rather than
going back and having to cut film.
And once, as we know,
once media is in a digital environment,
it's much easier and
interactive to manipulate.
And these files then get
scanned to 2K file sizes,
and that's about 12 megabytes a frame.
And that's a sustained data rate of just
video of about 300 megabytes a second.
So our systems have special servers,
special structures,
and color correction tools to digitally
assemble these huge files from a
longer three or four month edit
session and put them out to film.
That's what we're good at.
What we're not good at,
what we don't produce,
are very powerful sub-$1,000 long
form editing systems with the tools
that professional editors need to
be in a three month edit and edit.
And edit at 24 frames
and get a project done.
That's what Apple does well.
So what the XML technology does,
it allows us to bring together the
best of both worlds to create a really,
what is a unique workflow for Hollywood.
And it's something that Hollywood,
not just Hollywood,
but editing professionals around the
world have demanded for a long time,
which is flexibility.
I'm here to tell you that there
is a demand for this product,
and there is a demand for
this kind of interoperability.
And we're going to go through this,
see this actually move forward.
What's happening is that the
XML is in turn being turned into an
industry standard format called AAF,
advanced authoring format,
courtesy of our friends
at Automatic Duck,
Wes back there,
and Harry from Automatic Duck,
who are with this plug-in,
are spinning the XML into a
format that we at Quantel can read
and then digitally assemble the
offline data to the online data.
Editors are really,
really jazzed about this,
extremely jazzed about this.
I spent last week in LA talking
to a number of editors,
and when I explained the
workflow and the flexibility,
they're coming up with
all kinds of ideas,
and they're asking if certain
developers are getting a hold of this.
We're at a position now where
we're actually one of the first,
which I don't like.
I'd like to see that there's going
to be a lot of partners around.
So again,
please explore this a little bit.
What we're going to do today is
I'm going to bring up Milton,
one of our product
specialists from Quantel,
and we're going to go through the
workflow for digital intermediate
workflow on a Quantel system.
I'll go through this quickly.
These are some of the advantages
of doing it on a Quantel system.
Essentially,
it provides a more interactive,
more real-time environment
for digital assembly of film.
It allows the producers, the directors,
the directors of photography,
the editors to all sit down
and watch a film come together,
as it will be seen in the film.
theater and there's no substitution
for that it removes errors and with
the budgets of Hollywood films nowadays
this is a good thing so Milton once you
come up or wait we're gonna start with
Bill and then we'll go to Milton that's
right Bill's actually gonna take and
take a sequence that we captured from a
high-resolution environment I think in
this case it was HD but it could easily
be 2k and he's gonna do what editors do
they use you know Final Cut on trains
on planes when they have some spare
time in between other jobs and use the
portability of Final Cut Pro do this
long edit and then send us the data
now what we have here from the Quantel
is a substitute our 2k editing systems
are about this high in this wide and
it didn't make a lot of sense to bring
in a whole 2k editing system so we
brought our smaller version of this and
this will actually edit at 16 by 9 in
a smaller resolution but the workflow
is the same our UI is the same our
architecture is all the same that's one
of the unique benefits of the Quantel.
Thank you.
system is all the same code base
across the entire product range and
then we'll actually do somewhat of
a mirror version of what we were
doing the high-end 2k system so
Bill why don't you go ahead and do the
export now we'll have Milton come up
Okay, so this is a sequence.
We'll play through this for a second.
Question I got,
what's your favorite documentary film?
My favorite documentary?
- It's gotta be the last walk.
I love Neil Young, so when he sings
"Helpless" with the band,
and when Joni Mitchell kicks
in from behind the curtain.
I can feel
I think you get the idea.
This is for Silver Docs,
which is a film festival by AFI,
and it's presented on Discovery Channel.
So this project was shot at 24p in HD.
It was captured with the Kona HD card and
then captured to an offline resolution.
This was actually transcoded to
DV in this particular instance.
And all I need to do here is go ahead
and do a file export of this sequence.
And I'm gonna go down
to my automatic duck,
AAF export.
And you can see I've got this file here,
Silver Docs.
And I'm going to go
ahead and export that.
And it's exporting it
out over the network.
It's done real quick,
and Milton is getting wired,
so he'll be here in just a second.
So he will be able to,
we've got a hub here.
We sent it out over Ethernet,
targeted one of his disks,
and he's gonna go ahead and
bring that up right away.
Okay, good morning ladies and gents.
I'm going to take the file that Phil has
created by going to my input/output menu,
straight to my conform,
and drag the file across.
For the purposes of this demo,
I've already pre-loaded the material.
However, I'm going to use Build's AAF,
essentially, to create my conform.
So all I'm going to do now
is give my edit a name.
I'm going to call it My Edit.
Hit conform, and then go to my Clips bin,
and there it is.
That's the edit,
exactly the same as Bill created it.
I can scroll across that.
And then what I can do is I can go into
my QFX and do things like color correct.
So in this case,
I can use the advanced tools
of my color correction.
So if I just ramp up
the contrast on that.
Possibly bring down the brightness.
As you can see,
it's happening in real time.
Ramp up my saturation there.
To before and after, and you can see the
difference straight away.
Go to my settings,
I can save my settings,
or I can drag other
settings that I've created.
So, might have that particular look,
that look, or that look.
Go further down in the timeline.
Again, very easy.
Drag and drop straight away.
Or I could do things like go
in and create all my blurs.
All of these are harder
accelerated to my DVEs.
I can move things about very fast.
Keyframe everything so
I can go further down,
move the position,
and you can see all my graphs are there,
available.
Everything's happening in real time,
very, very fast.
So you can see from this simple
example how we can offline on a
system such as a Final Cut Pro system
and then bring it onto a Quantel.
In this case, it's a QEdit Pro.
It could be an EQ, an IQ,
an EQ which is standard def and HD,
or an IQ which is HD and 2K and can
also load in background 4K plates.
Currently, you can bring in information
such as the clip name,
your dissolves, your cuts in your video,
your audio, but then as more and more
channels become available in AAF,
you'll be able to bring in information
such as your color corrections,
your DVEs, and your blurs,
and all hardware accelerated,
all using proprietary hardware
where you're sitting with your
director and your producer,
and they want things to
happen very fast in real time,
and that's what you do.
[Transcript missing]
So, one of the keys that we wanted to
go over in showing some of this
workflow is there's actually a lot of
different pieces that are involved.
You heard audio,
you heard about cards for
different forms of acquisition,
you saw various effects,
you saw the XML pieces and the automatic
duck export to AAF and moving over to a
totally different system than the Mac.
The key here is there's a lot of
pieces involved in producing films
and producing professional content.
And there's a lot of different players
along each step of the process,
whether it be the card vendors for being
able to provide the acquisition hardware,
or whether it be the effects creators,
or whether the content itself.
And there's a lot of opportunities
here for people to participate.
[Transcript missing]
The other thing we're doing in
addition to providing access to
the full information is also making
sure that there's plug-in extensions
to Final Cut Pro in particular,
but other applications
as we move forward.
So that you have access to that
XML data through a way that's
actually integrated into the
workflow of the application itself.
We talked a little bit about AEF.
Again, AEF is industry format,
if you will.
We call it the Advanced Authoring Format,
which is a consortium or a collection
of companies that have come together
to try and find a common model for
being able to exchange information.
AEF looks to be very promising
as a way to be able to move data
around from system to system.
But the challenge with any open format,
such as,
or any design by committee format,
is that it takes a long time to evolve.
And while this, we think,
is certainly the most promising
of the various formats out there,
it still,
much like the other legacy formats,
still is very closed in many ways.
Information that's
exported out of one system,
like an Avid, for example,
or another AEF-producing application,
may actually contain
a lot of information.
It's a lot of what they call "black
metadata." It's basically metadata
that's passed around and only
visible to that given manufacturer.
And that's one of the things that we're
trying very desperately to try and avoid
by making things available through XML,
is to actually make sure
that everything is visible.
And with XML being somewhat
of a self-describing format,
it's actually very easy for
developers to be able to manipulate.
There's a lot of tools, certainly,
in MacOSX for being able to do that.
Automatic Duck.
We've worked very closely with them
over the past few months to actually
build on top of this XML export model,
this AEF plug-in,
so that there is an industry
standard interchange opportunity.
And we thank them for the
great work that they've done.
I want to point people off again
to some of the various sessions.
There's the content creation session that
I already mentioned later this afternoon.
There's also a session
tomorrow on data interchange.
We're going to focus on the whole
process of both XML and AF and actually
what some of the details are behind
the interchange formats and how you
actually can get more involved in
this workflow for going between the
various professional media applications.
So hopefully we can see a bunch of
you guys there tomorrow morning.
And again,
we have a session on Thursday for
going over some of the video
hardware opportunities,
other acquisition cards
and acceleration cards,
vendors that might be interested in
being able to support Final Cut Pro 4.
And on Friday, a session on plug-ins.
Again,
if you're a plug-in developer interested
in taking your After Effects plug-in
and making it available to Final Cut,
or you're interested in learning
a little bit more about Shake,
or some of the other plug-in formats,
audio units and things like that,
please join us on Friday afternoon.
With that,
we're going to close this session
and hopefully we'll see you then.
If you have any questions,
anything like that, make sure you contact
your industry evangelist,
Jeff Lowe, who represents professional
film and video.
We appreciate you all coming today.
Thank you.